
Version 2016a (released 21 June 2016)
--------------------------------------------------

:download:`PDF Manual for v2016a </assets/doc/SUEWS_V2016a_Manual.pdf>`

#. Major changes to the input file formats to facilitate the running of
   multiple grids and multiple years. Surface characteristics are
   provided in `SUEWS_SiteSelect.txt` and other input files are cross-referenced
   via codes or profile types.
#. The surface types have been altered:

   -  Previously, grass surfaces were entered separately as irrigated
      grass and unirrigated grass surfaces, whilst the ‘unmanaged’ land
      cover fraction was assumed by the model to behave as unirrigated
      grass. There is now a single surface type for grass (total for
      irrigated plus unirrigated) and a new bare soil surface type.
   -  The proportion of irrigated vegetation must now be specified for
      grass, evergreen trees and deciduous trees individually.

#. The entire model now runs at a time step specified by the user. Note
   that 5 min is strongly recommended. (Previously only the water
   balance calculations were done at 5 min with the energy balance
   calculations at 60 min).
#. Surface conductance now depends on the soil moisture under the
   vegetated surfaces only (rather than the total soil moisture for the
   whole study area as previously).
#. Albedo of evergreen trees and grass surfaces can now change with leaf
   area index as was previously possible for deciduous trees only.
#. New suggestions in Troubleshooting section.
#. Edits to the manual.
#. CBL model included.
#. SUEWS has been incorporated into `UMEP <http://umep-docs.readthedocs.io/>`_
