
.. _new_latest:

.. _new_2020a:

Version 2020a (Released on 14 May 2020)
----------------------------------------------------

.. note::
  In a future release, we will **ONLY** deliver SUEWS along with `SuPy <https://supy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ as a command line tool `suews-run`: release of standalone SUEWS binaries **will be stopped** to ease our maintenance load and to facilitate rapid developments.
  Users will need to have Python 3.6+ to install SuPy:

  .. code-block:: shell

      python3 -m pip install -U supy

  However, as the source code of SUEWS are public, users can feel free to compile standalone binaries for platforms of their own interests.


- **Improvement**

  #. A ponding water scheme is added in the automatic irrigation calculation; useful when a certain depth of ponding water to maintain in irrigation (e.g., flooding irrigation in rice crop-field).

  #. Irrigation fraction can be specified for all surfaces (previously only available for vegetated surfaces)

  #. A U-shape approach for calculating HDD/CDD is introduced to account for a wide comfort zone between heating and cooling critical temperatures.



- **Changes**

  #. A new `RoughLenHeatMethod` option `5`: adaptively choose option `1` for fully pervious surface or `2` otherwise (if any impervious surface exists).

  #. A new column `H_maintain` is added in `SUEWS_Irrigation.txt` to set ponding water depth.

  #. New columns to specify irrigation fractions for non-vegetated surfaces in `SUEWS_SiteSelect.txt`.

  #. A new `scheme option <:ref:scheme_options>`_ `BaseTMethod` in `RunControl.nml` to set calculation scheme for HDD/CDD.

- **Fix**

  NONE.


- **Known issues**

  #. Wind direction is not currently downscaled so non -999 values will cause an error.



